# CS120B
Final Project: Alarm Clock
	The project I have built is an alarm clock that takes an input from the user using seven buttons. I have used a Atmega1284 microcontrollers as the brain of the project. As an output method I used an LCD to display the time and alarm while a LED and a buzzer indicating that the alarm is going off. 
  The first button, A0, is a flag to set the time of the actual clock. The third, A2, and fourth, A3, button is for setting the hours and minutes respectively. Both buttons are designed so that when the user goes over 23 for the hours and 59 for the minutes it recycles to 00:00.  A4, the fifth button is the enter key that allows the user to transfer from the hour changing state to the minute changing state. Additionally, when pressing the enter key during the minute changing state, the LCD display will start displaying the count for the seconds for the user to keep track. After the seconds starts ticking through the tick function set in the main, the user can press the second button, A1, to set an alarm. The same logic for the hour and minute button applies. I have used the LCD_Cursor() command to maneuver around the LCD panel have the time’s initial position at LCD_Cursor(1) and having the alarm’s initial position at LCD_Cursor(17). The value 17 ensures that the alarm is located on the second row of the LCD screen unlike the time. When displaying and incrementing a number I have used a method in which I have a variable that counts the total number of cycles the state machine went through for the if statement. Depending on the value of the variable I have coded the 10’s digit of the hour and minute. 
  The output of the project used an LED and buzzer. The LED was connected to PB0 and was toggled when the alarm time variables and the time variable were equivalent. The buzzer was connected to PB6 and was initialized using PWM_on(). I have used 281 as my frequency. The buzzer was toggled along with the LED in the same state to ensure it was synced. The buzzer creates a sound using set_PWM(281).
  The snooze and dismiss button of the alarm clock was done on A6 and A7 respectively. When the user snoozes the alarm clock I have implemented a timer which allows it to be snoozed for 40 seconds. The dismiss button breaks the alarm function in order it to escape a loop. In the state machine for the LED and buzzer, I have used set_PWM(0) to turn off the buzzer and tempB = 0x00 to turn off the LED. 
  In my main I have called two functions to raise a flag from the user inputs to prevent an infinite loop or a non-working program. After the flag was raised I called the functions to start my counting. My period was 250 to ensure that my cycle was 1 second but for the demonstration I have used 50 to increase the speed. 
